Microsoft co-founder and philanthropist Bill Gates  is the pioneering tech titan  who helped lead the computer revolution  and plans to donate the majority  of his multi-billion dollar fortune to global causes.  Now he's sharing his journey  and how it began in his new memoir, Source Code.  Please welcome, for the very first time,  on The View, Bill Gates.  So, first of all, welcome to The View.  Wow.  But secondly, it's kind of great to have you  at such an important time for the country  because it seems like today's tech billionaires  are shifting rightward and seem to have more power  than even the VP, whose name I can't remember.
Well, there's no club of these people.  We're, you know, kind of individual.  And, you know, I'm very focused on global health  and, you know, hope the transition to this administration  doesn't interrupt some incredible work that's been going on.
Well, they had some VIP seating at the inauguration  and we did notice you weren't there.  What do you make of that visual?
You know, they clearly wanted to fund the inauguration.  And they wanted it to be a great inauguration  just for the good of the country, no doubt.
Well said.  I feel good calling you Bill, Mr. Gates.  Shortly before President Trump took office,  you had a three-hour dinner with him.  And that's more face time than, as you say,  you had with Joe Biden during his presidency.  And by your account, you say that you were impressed with him.  What are you able to share about issues you discussed?  And since he's only been in office two weeks,  but do you feel like what you discussed aligned  with what you're seeing so far?
Well, my two priorities in talking to President Trump  were the global health issues, particularly HIV and polio.  Mm-hmm.  The voters have a lot to be proud of.  You know, we've saved tens of millions of lives.  Mm-hmm.  The number of children who die at the turn of the century  is over 10 million a year.  Mm-hmm.  Now down below 5 million.  Mm-hmm.  And things like HIV medicines, malaria bed nets,  Yeah.  are responsible for that and vaccines.  You know, so I was encouraged him to drive more innovation  in those spaces.  And we were missing, still missing some vaccines.  And, you know, I felt we had a very good conversation.
Mm-hmm. Okay.  Well, and you, Mr. Gates,  you also called Elon Musk's political influence abroad,  quote, insane, along with another word we can't repeat here.  But what's your take on his political access and influence  here in America right now?
Well, Elon, his private sector work, you know,  has been very innovative, really fantastic.  Mm-hmm.  A lot of private sector people, when they get into government,  they don't take the time necessarily to see  what the good work is or why it's structured the way it is.  So I'm a little worried, particularly with this USAID stuff.  Mm-hmm.  My foundation partners with USAID on nutrition  and getting vaccines out.  And, you know, there's incredible people.  You know, they're not actually worms that work there.  Yeah.  So, you know, hopefully we'll get some of that work  back in shape.  In fact, if we don't, you know,  you could have literally millions of deaths.  So, you know, with aid, people think, you know,  wow, how much do we give these countries?  As you said, it's less than a percent.  Some people think it's five percent and it should be two percent,  but it's actually under one percent.
Yeah. Wow.  And still saving lives.  Well, your Gates Foundation is the biggest funder of vaccines in the world.  I think a lot of people don't recognize that.  And it was key to developing the COVID vaccine.  Mm-hmm.  That has made you, unfortunately, a target of all kinds of baseless conspiracies,  including from RFK Jr., who apparently does have a worm in his brain.  And he now claims he is not anti-vax.  Do you believe him?
Well, we'll do our best to work with him.  Under his management is going to be the FDA, which is a fantastic regulator,  you know, passing judgment on a lot of the new innovations we're funding.  NIH does fantastic research.  Yeah.  And so those have been partners of our foundation.  And, you know, I hope the great scientists there get the support they deserve.  Mm-hmm.
And just to follow up, before COVID, you say you spent the most sleepless nights worrying about pandemics.  After COVID, has that changed?  And if it has, what keeps you up now?  Because we all need to know.  Yeah.
Yeah, the pandemic, sadly, was fairly predictable.  And it won't be the last pandemic.  The next one could be far more severe.  I mean, this one, it killed millions.  It was awful.  We got the vaccine.  You know, actually, President Trump's leadership was a factor in getting that out quickly.  And so I, when I spoke to him, I said, okay, here's some other medical innovations,  including a thing called an HIV cure that could be accelerated.  Mm-hmm.  So, you know, we should be more prepared, both for a pandemic.  I'd say that's still number one.  Mm-hmm.  You know, you can worry about nuclear war.  You can worry about AI.  Oh, this sounds like fun.  There's plenty to worry about.  Well, do you sleep at all?  But overall, I'm an optimist.  Do you sleep at all?  Okay.  No, I mean, you know, it's up to the government to think ahead on behalf of the citizens.  Yes.  So, a pandemic, there's a lot that we should be doing that hopefully will get our act together  before the next one comes.  Which is...  You know, overall, the innovation in health, both in the developing countries, the rich world,  you know, I love being part of that.
I was reading, though, that you said the next pandemic, you are predicting within maybe 25 years.  Is that accurate?
Oh, certainly we'll have one in the next 25 years.  Uh, you know, there's even some pathogens out there that we're watching over right now.  Mm-hmm.  Um, you know, so maybe 10% chance in the next four years.  Yeah.  Um...
Well, let's talk about AI, which you mentioned.  Last week, Silicon Valley and stocks were rocked by news that China's AI model may outperform  ours at a fraction of the cost and quicker to develop it.  You've been very, in the book, you're very optimistic about AI.  Are you still optimistic and is the US falling behind China in the AI race?
Well, the US has done amazing work.  You know, both people born here and people who come here mean that we have  more AI companies than even China has.  But we should never underestimate great innovation in China.  In many of the areas of science or getting product costs down, they do great work.  They're 20% of the world's population.  So the fact that this turn of the crank, they got ahead, um, that's not totally surprising.  The US companies will, including OpenAI, will catch up and move ahead.  Um, the pace of advance is pretty fantastic.  Mm-hmm.  And in many ways, that's, uh, gonna help us in education and health delivery.  A lot of good things that can come out of this that aren't zero sum.  That, you know, having all countries have access, including poor countries,  uh, I think is, is very exciting.
I have to ask you this because of my obsession with, uh, social media and where it's going.  We noticed you haven't tweeted in a while, but this past weekend, you joined TikTok, Bill Gates.  Why did you join the platform?  Where do you come down on the impact of social media more broadly, especially with, uh,  Meta banning fact-checking?  Do you do dance numbers on TikTok?
Or...
Whatever it takes to sell books.  Really?  I'm available.  Uh...